# Transformations and coordinate spaces

Some values depend on the coordinate space used as a reference.
A position that is $\begin{bmatrix}0 & 0 & 0\end{bmatrix}$ in a model's coordinates
might be anywhere in the world coordinates once we place that model on the scene.

To transform coordinates between spaces we usually use matrices.
Those matrices always transform values from one specific space to another.

## Common coordinate spaces

The coordinate spaces commonly used by the engine are:
- **Model space**: coordinates relative to the model's 'origin'.
Values in this space denote a model's shape, with no regard for the placement of the model in a scene.
- **World space**: coordinates relative to the scene's origin.
This is the global space of objects placed on the scene, with no regard for the objects' rendering on the screen.
- **View space**: coordinates from the camera's position of view.
This is the world space with camera's position as its origin, and with camera's orientation taken into account.
It still disregards perspective and other projections.
Objects directly in front of the camera are placed in the center of the view,
that is at (x,y) coordinates $\begin{bmatrix}0 & 0\end{bmatrix}$.
'z' coordinate stores the distance of positions from the camera's plane, with normal equal to camera's direction of view.
- **Projection space**: coordinates projected to the display.
For 3D scenes, perspective projection is usually used, which makes faraway object smaller.
The values depend on the rendering backend used,
so the transformations are generated by the rendering plugin.

## Naming properties

Properties depending on the coordinate space are named using a `4<space>` suffix.
For example we can have `position4model` and `position4world`.
The number `4` is read as 'for'.

Transformation matrices are named by the spaces they transform between,
with `2` inbetween space names, i.e. `<source>2<dest>`.
For example, `model2world`, `world2view` and `view2projection`.
The number `2` is read as 'to'.